Java singleton design pattern (#3692)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/java-singleton-design-pattern/index.md

The example below shows how to use a thread double-locking technique ;

```java
class OurSingleton {
    private static OurSingleton object1;

    private OurSingleton() {}

    public static synchronized OurSingleton getInstances()
    {
        if (object1 == null)
         {
            synchronized(OurSingleton.class)
            {
                if (object1 == null)
                    object1 = new OurSingleton();
            }
        }
        return object1;
    }
}

public class BluePrint
{
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        Threads r1 = new Threads(new Runnable() {
            public void run() {
                OurSingleton a1 = OurSingleton.getInstances();
            }
        });

        Threads r2 = new Threads(new Runnable()
        {
            public void run() {
                OurSingleton a1 = OurSingleton.getInstances();
            }
        });

        r1.start();
        r2.start();
    }
}

```

> In the example, we find a remedy for this issue of synchronous code overhead. This function's `GetInstance` is not synchronized, but the component that creates the instance is, thus only a few threads must wait the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example, we find a remedy for this issue of synchronous code overhead. This function's `GetInstance` is not synchronized, but the component that creates the instance is. Thus only a few threads must wait the first time.
```

### Enum with Singleton Pattern

> We have another way of creating a singleton pattern that overcomes the disadvantages of all four above implementations. From Java 1.5, there is just another technique for creating a singleton design pattern, which is thread-safe and uses fewer resources. This approach can only work if one uses Java 1.5 or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a way of creating a singleton pattern that overcomes the disadvantages of all the implementations that we looked at. From Java 1.5, there is only one other technique for creating a singleton design pattern which is thread-safe and uses fewer resources. This approach can only work if one uses Java 1.5 or higher.
```

> Here is the syntax of an enum with a singleton pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the syntax of an enum with a singleton pattern:
```

```java
 enum IJK
  {
      Instance; //private constructor (which should be inbuilt)
  }

```

Below is an example,

```java

enum OurSingleton {
    INSTANCE;
    int y;
    public void show() {
        System.out.println(y);
    }
}

public class BluePrint
 {
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        OurSingleton object2 = OurSingleton.INSTANCE;
        object2.y = 15;
        object2.show();

        OurSingleton object2 = OurSingleton.INSTANCE;
        object3.y = 25;
        object2.show();
    }
}

```

This will be the result.

```bash
15
25

```

> There is an idea of decoding, despite the, we are dealing with Double-Check Locking (DCL). The readObject method will return a new object even if the class is a singleton.

Reviewer: The first sentence here does not make sense.

> When we are working with enums, there is a method called readResolve that will not generate a new object and instead uses the existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we are working with enums, there is a method called `readResolve`  that will not generate a new object and instead uses the existing one.
```
